suppose I need a me dr. hunt on your
exams your age you know this a symphony
this isn't the time for taking mythology
what about the pilot on the Santoni job
don't watch women say thank you wo those
orchids you nothing has rejected the
wrong fella to beauty harder for me to
confidently factor be the one to pull my
sheep artistic challenge is not a
shuttle you will have more money to move
our coverage and also need to serve this
need a daily job talk to my mother who
needs Santos in place some sense into
the geology of somebody or another God
knows taani dr. Natalia sergeant worried
about the toughen over those she'll
understand mrs. Obama record a martini
generally as I attempted on God's terms
of a jobber culture I just enjoy about
the Joker Orion and think about the
Gujarati college apparently Tarawa or 36
Robert Andrew son Anthony Johnson of
sunny to partly sorry tokenism do one
better
Hajime the biology human there isn't
much party support a baja consumption
chamber culture the budget that some
monkeys have all sorts of anomalies so
much
one doctor or somebody like Johnny this
is also Victorian Britain or a celebrity
by race and sort of my friends this
afternoon we will receive steam refuge
well and the Bodhisattva vows together
and now really the difference between
those different kind of vowels mainly
also lies in how character capacity our
mind has so the refuge well seems to be
from them like from the lower vehicles
perspective and then seems to be more
far away in terms of enlightenment but
then the three jewels are still always
the same but then now you're merging
that with the Bodhisattva motivation so
normally when we take the refuge Wow no
when we follow the common vehicles then
we would take the refuge bow for the
purpose of this life one until we die
and we don't really understand the
nature of the Dharma kion doesn't belong
high off the bottom so we take the
refuge bow for as long as we live but
after we have died we don't know how it
will be carried on so this is more from
them lower because perspective now if
one really understands the true meaning
of the refuge one knows who is the
actual refuge the Buddha actually only
showed us the method but the actual
refuge is bodhichitta and that will be
with you from lifetime to lifetime from
now onward until you attain
enlightenment so that is what we are
introduced to when we receive this bow
so if we don't recognize that if we
don't really understand that then also
there is a lesser benefit so when we
take the refuge bow the first
supplication that we repeat the
commitment is taking refuge for as long
as we live
and that is more from the perspective of
the lower vehicles but the refuge the
source of refuge is always the same it's
the Buddha Dharma and Sangha on the
lower vehicle the practitioners would
seem the Buddha as a human being and
they're not so sure but I still here not
but they assert that the Dharma and the
Sangha are present so that's the only
difference
so this is to be understood when you
repeat their supplications and most most
people to understand that and so then
the next level of commitment that we
take is a commitment that we take from
now onward until attaining enlightenment
and that in essence actually is the
Bodhisattva vow if you think I'm taking
refuge until i attain enlightenment
that's really the essence of the
Bodhisattva vow
so the difference lies really in the
level of funds motivation ovens no
capacity to
fujita bourgeoisie Cosentino you're a
vegetable now Atarot your dinner data
machine dr. Dorothy
double trauma or homogeneous illiteracy
such as a cappella so I turn around
easily and the difference of nine is dr.
Tanaka
you know Catherine isn't our target
isn't only the Cartagena Waterloo
Maserati
Marcy pursuant to authority $1 $2
Sumatran engineers entities ultimate
authority since oil producer in
Menomonie sonar on the massive digital
material the semi this our community
terminal Ernie summers at Thomas on
general under and solitaire solitaire
solitaire solitaire solitaire dominance
in the region soy de Mazarin days
Jesus on service robots solutions of
Arthur controller Carly simply from
salesman Adama range
repeat all times the Samadhi Department
announced operatives day distortion or
authority approaches a universal
astrology regional no one Matawa non
satis NT nearly something instantly
changed city so you know a signal to
start shows about Normandy region Santos
said we don't want our top of his
revival hei government we are on my
yacht sort of early so I chose Superdome
are desirous tomorrow is so shallow
soils awesome the authorities that I
give it you looked at me at 6:00 hour or
take it easy
three the you can do control sunlit are
the self-control constitutional
sorry champions in some red data which
was adopted on bisciotti there he needs
total knowledge
Ramarley that you know are dealing
naughty true research Hodges suggestion
morisaki a unity there are controls on
Hollywood's some potassium Musa Moses
Osteen commander General Zod Jima
mortally how they are some cultural and
you know very soon occupies a single
daddy's home from the shore gentlemen
step I can show very significant story
The Potter's McKee KY evolve our holy
mother told to party tourist area
something the pasta something morally so
the three jewels are the same in which
our vehicle who follow and in terms of
the precept sort of training and what is
to be attained the result temporal limb
there are some slight differences in
terms of that there's a difference in
the lower and the greater vehicles now
for example in the greater vehicle and
team recognizes the streak highest of
the Buddha and in the lower vehicle one
things more of the buddha shakyamuni
that's the person so in any case most
people are familiar with our source of
refuge and so and we now repeat the
refuge from in the beginning first we
take the refuge bow for as long as we
live and this verse mainly refers to the
vows
you take this body and speech and that
could be anything you can think it to
yourself it could be for example the
four roots vowels or including not
drinking alcohol which makes five or you
can take one while two vowels any number
of vows you can think that to yourself
this is about taking so you don't have
to tell that to anyone or even say it
you just think that to yourself
also for enough to save time and so
first of all there's this vow that you
take until you die
so that refers to those vows body and
speech and then in terms of the duration
ideally you take that vow until your
time if you can't do that you can also
take that vow those vows for a year or
if you can't do that and even for a
month or if you can't do that
even just for 24 hours and the benefits
are inconceivable so in terms of however
you can decide yourself how many vows
you want to take and however long you
want to take those vows the duration
there's no need to tell anyone
also no one really can tell you what
vows to take it's really your own
aspiration and so you take this
commitment or you can take the vow for
example on days where we do the so long
vowels like the full moon day and so on
keep the vows on those days those vows
are taken on those days in order to
restore and purify and so we travel you
take the merit is really incredible in
our prayer we also same I will practice
sort of virtue such as generosity and so
forth
and so any kind of bound and then when
it comes to the Bodhisattva vow
there are some different supplications
to repeat but basically the essence of
that is the altruistic mind that you
take this vow for the benefit of all
sentient beings in terms of timing from
now onward until you attain
enlightenment so the individual
liberation vows refuge realm now refers
more to the physical the verbal vows and
then the Bodhisattva vow is about
bodhichitta so most important is in
terms of body and speech that whatever
you do he don't cause any harm towards
others and then throughout the three
periods of day and three periods of the
night you remember putting down and
he cultivated you accumulate bodhichitta
it is said that bodhichitta is easily
lost but also it is easily restored for
example even the slightest moment of
anger actually causes for the cheater to
decline but it can be restored easily
for example when anger arises and you
instantly regret that and you remember
bodhichitta again then it is restored it
is that that it bodhichitta is
bodhisattva vow is like a golden garland
a golden chain you can't really destroy
the gold that's the patient's part but
you can unlink it so you can break it
like momentarily but it can easily fix
it too so that's like the Bodhisattva
vow bodhichitta it's broken easily but
it's easily restored so these are the
repetitions that we will repeat the
words quite clear the refuge are his
rituals which are always the same the
Buddha Dharma and the Sangha and now to
tame since I am the one giving you the
refuge Vajrasattva vow that's teacher
who gives you those vows as spiritual
teacher should be seen as an
and after three jewels for example with
my podium I refrained from harming
anyone therefore I'm a sangha nun with
my speech I teach the Dharma and the
mind is the budem because the mind is
put on nature so once you see that
spiritual friend from whom one receives
the vow as an embodiment after three
jewels and in particular the Sangha you
should think that all the Sangha are
complete within that teacher then your
mind will become vast then for example
you think that it is quite an incredible
the Sangha in this world for example in
India nowadays how many Sangha can
gather together or how many Buddha's
appear in this time and age is
incredible so if we think in this way
your mind opens up and phase arises and
one phase arises then the ice block of
self-grasping is melting so it melts in
two ways actually when it is directed
upwards towards the three jewels it
manifests as faith and when it is
directed toward sentient beings then the
ice block is melted through compassion
so actually the essence of both is the
same their nature is love difference is
just that how it is the higher beings
only without the zone
- Oh some other hinge related to the
salami Vatican II the
subtly Sujatha design Tony
tablet was supposed interior the current
economy untold o+ partisan saga Prakash
in northern territory to cash in
Ramanuja matter the ceremony the
authorities remote area commercial
passenger terminal doctor you're a
technology person
some more tea
emotional volatility jewelry
you can see the other two dimensions of
low oxygen potential knowledgeable
tsunami Jersey Holly are still masala
pina touch a doorknob attrition original
geometry other rechargeable such a
universal art circuitry and rotating it
internally
live a sunny San Jacinto charges Hodges
Sanjay Sanjay Mohammed Reza Madadi del
pasado por nada para charger New Jersey
from da da da da sorceress about any
jewelry given importantly somebody's
injuries somebody religious meteorology
but in society suggested on you do miss
or tennis or Indian education
similar to the other side somewhat rigid
trainer of hominid was drinking part
rings Ord some positive in indigenous
tradition for supporting me yes the
recording obviously the curtain
definitive extra religion master
horrible digitally sandwich average
karna conjure Stella to impart change
interesting accorded cells change or
just injecting power she opted in table
top alarm all range Estonia tewara asana
was also calling need reasonable given
society but apparently the budget super
charm lorry the body tsunami not the
sound this whole didn't catch it just
establishes human authority for the
total gives individuals such a gentleman
user so let me take the refuge bomb the
the Buddha just showed us the method as
we said and if we apply this method that
is if we do not forsake bodhichitta it
will not forsake us and so in that sense
the refuge is undeceiving
it will not forsake you if you don't
forsake it so actually it makes logical
sense to know when as a result if you
keep if you hold on to it then with
certain team it will always be there as
your refuge and leads to temporary burrs
in the higher realms and ultimate and
and so that's why we say me beings have
happiness and the causes of happiness so
the three jewels are our trustworthy
sources of refuge and if you hold on to
them then they would hold on to you and
they will not let go and what it refers
to the thing that you hold on to your
refuge is love and compassion and also
as a result of actions done with love
and compassion now know it you
experience happiness and you will
continue to experience happiness in our
lifetimes so that's trustworthy or I'm
deceiving then in the refuge card it
says them I think refuge in wisdom the
hard essence of the Buddha so this
wisdom within you the Buddha within you
is that mind that things I want to take
the refuge vow and the fact that you
want that shows that you already have
taken the refuge bow in a previous life
and that imprint is again awakened now
know some people for example they never
develop a wish to take a refuge vow and
then there is others who are far away
and they can't meet the teacher for
example what we do here is we give
refuge over the mail and people send
their hair clipping and their picture
over the mail and then we send them the
refuge heart
there's many disciples who do it that
way because they really want to take the
refuge Wow even though they're very far
away and actually those pictures that
they send in I keep them all together
I'm kind of I'm displayed and next to
them I'm doing the smoke offering every
day so that is that cause of Mary that
you bring with you
that's the
essence of the buddha and the wisdom
that the one that wants to take the
refuge vow and that imprint is in your
mind and it's just being awakened you
know sometimes we become unmindful again
in our lives but then again when we meet
a circumstance past karma becomes
awakened and it will continue to become
awakened from lifetime to lifetime every
white lifetime that imprint will become
awakened again and then in every
lifetime you will develop more and more
until you attain enlightenment so the
the mere wish to take the refuge foul is
really an incredible merit it's quite
amazing actually to have that wish that
you really want to take the refuge from
so that's extremely precious and that's
the inner Buddha within you the hard
essence of the Buddha your own wisdom
and it becomes actualized when it
separates from all dualistic grasp and
all that becomes cleared away then it
attains enlightenment into the nature of
the Dharmakaya and wisdom is perfected
and so then secondly it says I take
refuge in love and compassion the heart
essence of the Dharma so the Dharma is
love and compassion so why is it that we
are not yet in widened it is because of
our dualistic grasping itself in other
and a very strong habit of doing that
and this this has led to many afflictive
emotions which obscured a mind just like
clouds there are 84 thousand different
afflictive emotions which are all rooted
in self grasping the only way to purify
that is love and compassion therefore
this is the heart essence of all damn
this is love and compassion and
specifically it is that compassion that
is infused with loving kindness it's not
the ordinary compassion your ordinary
compassion is related to attachment or
desire for example when you seem a very
beautiful cute animal or a nice flower
and so on then you might develop some
affection or compassion for it but
that's one area so this is not that kind
of compassion here this compassion here
is the compassion that is infused with
loving kindness and the way we develop
this kind of compassion is by starting
with our parents
remembering the kindness developing a
wish to repay their kindness so that is
the Hardison's of the Dharma love and
compassion and then a third game I take
refuge in virtuous Friends Hardison's of
companions and as we mentioned that the
other Dame all the teachers whether they
are Dhamma teachers or mundane teachers
all have inconceivable qualities in fact
to me they all are Buddha emanations
because the Buddha appears in which ever
way necessary to benefit sentient beings
and science for example is also
necessary in order to ensure the
well-being of the beings living in this
world and then for those with higher and
wisdom the path of liberation is
necessary but all of these have teachers
who show us that are necessary so the
Buddha appears in whichever way
necessary to benefit sentient beings and
therefore to meme even teachers of
worldly fields of knowledge all are
Buddha emanations and when you see that
way really a vast sense of faith arises
in you and that's the root of merit then
the Mormon
you obviously sees that you planned in
that in a field the more seeds later
will grow from that the more benefit
more fruit will grow from that
so I'm taking refuge in the birches
companion or friend is the Hardison's of
companion which is the Sangha so these
are the Buddha Dharma and Sangha so now
for some tender Chivo material
originally controller that knockety
knockety each entrepreneur ambassador da
da da da da da da da da da da da da
mucho this argument apparently Dhahran
Saudi market average treatment at the
Ottoman probably not regenerate
Ritardando Pony which is always what
knowledge that in sahaja yoga number two
competitive ramanatham there s no longer
ranges over darkness of the mandatory
certainly there is a digital image a con
body further the central part was
innocent of some vomit digital talent
easily determine really to socialize it
emotion job possible textured das was
recently not with the reporters over now
critics in elevators are here
so once you have done receive the refuge
Wow actually it is said that the merit
from that will multiply anything
virtuous that you do I am like a hundred
for example if you recite a single mani
mantra
it's like reciting a hundred money
mantras so the benefit becomes
multiplied and then also whatever prayer
you make from that time on it is made in
the presence of the three jewels and
therefore will be supported and
accomplished so let me take the refuge
from it is like you are becoming a
citizen of the Buddhist countries like
one country and once you become the
citizen a citizen of a country along
with that you will receive all the
citizenship rights for example when you
become American citizen you also receive
an American passport and all the rights
of an American so it's just like that
when you take refuge in the three jewels
so then whatever you do whatever
aspiration you make will become
accomplished and will become the merit
of it will become vast and so then
having taken the refuge from you
received for thirty-seven practices and
that is like your passport for not going
to devote an after when you dime that's
your passport that will bring you to the
higher realms or they were channel then
this refuge card that you will receive
that's your key boarding pass by
airplane ticket
and certain about your crown that's the
kind of that the airport gate and Tara
is sitting there as a pilot with the
plane waiting for you to board the plane
so when you die the consciousness has to
leave through the crown which is why we
clip a piece of hair from your crown
which opens the crown consciousness
leaves from there and then goes into
tourism airplane but then in order to go
land there what you also have to do is
observe the laws of that country and
that's again the 37 Bodhisattva
practices so next we will repeat the vow
and the first verse we repeat belongs to
the individual liberation so it's a vow
that we take for as long as we live and
the second verse is about that we take
form for all lifetimes until we attain
enlightenment and that's it
is related to the Bodhisattva vow then
after that you can come up to receive
your hair clipped Piketty hair clipped
if you have already done that you don't
have to come again so you don't have to
get your hair clipped again you can
still be here of course it's always good
to to listen to the teachings of
trainings and the practices again we
want to make the best use of our time
too now so if you're completely new and
he if he had never had your hair clipped
then you arrived come to come up your
hair will be captain is pouch and we'll
be in under the protection of the three
jewels and I will always keep that here
so then please repeat noble one
please grant me your attention from this
time on and for as long as I live I am
called can see your name why don't you
go for refuge in the Buddha who is
supreme among two left beings I go for
refuge in the Dharma which is supreme
among those free of attachment I go for
refuge in the Sangha which is supreme
among assemblies for as long as I live
noble one please accept me as a lay
adherent to the three-fold refuge who
observes a few precepts Master please
grant me your attention
from this time on and until the essence
of enlightenment manifests I Who am
called and say name go for refuge in the
Buddha who is the preme among two-leg
beings I go for refuge in the Dharma
which is supreme among those free of
attachment I go for refuge in the Sangha
which is supreme
among Assemblies until the essence of
enlightenment manifests master please
accept me as a lay adherent to the
threefold refuge who observes one or
more of the Five Precepts
have you no Teletubbies lecture wards so
next room butcher will say top we know
which means this is the method so this
is the method for you to attain
liberation so your response to that will
be like so which means excellent decided
in a mid to latter adopted years the
method was some shown given by the
Buddha the Buddha said I show you the
path to liberation porridge now you have
received a refuge foul dragon it's our
time to attempt number of some of the
man so this was the refuge well next is
the Bodhisattva realm so please repeat
justice those countless in former times
gave rise to
the mind of enlightenment and maintained
the progressive training after
Bodhisattvas in a like manner I for the
benefit of wavering beings give rise to
bodhichitta and thus engage
progressively in the trainings I will
cause all mother sentient beings
infinite space particularly enemies who
despise me abstractors who do harm and
those who hinder liberation and
omniscience to have happiness be free
from suffering and swiftly attain
precious unsurpassed perfect complete
enlightenment Oh
Somali government challenge
Indiana town in jiu-jitsu boy avatar is
so this is great compassion if you are
able to cultivate compassion for those
enemies enemies who hate you then that's
a sign of great compassion toward
educators please repeat for that purpose
I will apply body speech in mind
to hurt you mashallah
enlightenment is attained I will apply
goddess each in mind to watch you from
now until this time tomorrow I will
apply body speech and mind to virtue
somebody reported something solely the
new Maserati three much butter doctoral
masters even some decision sister to get
some clear instructions in normal
monument at the shop averted swinging
bachelor party
so the torture is reportable agencies
with no tension supreme soul or heads so
now we just took this vow for example
saying that until attained enlightenment
so until I attained enlightenment I will
hold on to love and until a time a
practice virtue with body and speech
mainly here and the mind of bodhichitta
goes on so we take that until we dime or
as he mentioned for 24 hours in fact
love for each item is something we have
to remember throughout the six periods
of the day and night the three periods
of the day and the three periods of the
night at all times you should check have
I have I allowed bodhichitta to decline
or not and if you have then recognize
and confess that for example if you get
a little bit angry then immediately
confess that so each and every day and
that were first here to saying from now
until this time tomorrow each and every
day in the morning and take this
commitment again
and then in the evening confess any
transgressions so that is what it means
to remember it and to and to restore it
throughout the three periods of day and
night cause I don't you / chili or I
think the doubts in Jerusalem please
repeat now my lives will be fruitful
having obtained well a human existence I
have today taken birth in the lineage of
the Buddha's and have now become docile
sociology Turkish authorities tolerate
the ponyta sigh giggle at a static
charge in virtuosity just not too great
mr. leung kwan-yuen organ this research
it's a block then you start almost empty
papers multiple airplay and don't hurt
each other
have you not even our song ends of the
Sancho's in the to mention long though I
can't imagine an abandoned area to
mention Sanchez de Soto is a general
santos city impart or edge psychosom
Toba you know what our top songs
so next again membership is it happy
which means the system method so now we
have recognized that bodhichitta is
precious and i will not forsake it and
so then when we respond with lexo again
at that time we have received the
Bodhisattva vow then and so as we just
have set here in the supplication we
have then taken birth in the lineage of
the Buddha's which means the family and
from then onward we have to engage in
the Buddha's activities so it is like we
have arrived at this royal seat of the
Buddha the Buddha and we should rejoice
in that and others rejoice in that
namsom so it is just like the string of
a Mahlum this Bodhisattva vow a malice
strain the strain is his pond of love
and it's not a physical bond but is the
bond of a mind the bond of the mind of
love so before I come up for receiving
the hair clipping we will say like so
after ambushes as top you know then he
can come up for hair clipping and then
we repeat the concluding
so now you can rejoice and others will
also rejoice you can start coming up and
and while you come up repeat their
concluding prayers that also George
so then please repeat it now my lives
will be fruitful
having obtained well a human existence I
have today taken birth in the lineage
after Buddha's and have now become a
bodhisattva
now whatever I do
I will engage in actions that accord
with dis lineage I will act so as not to
sully this flawless noble lineage today
in the presence of all the protectors
I have called wavering beings to realize
the enlightened potential until then in
order to please beings I invite them as
guests
thus you God's demigods and all others
rejoice by the word she was accumulated
in samsara and Nirvana in the three
times and by the intrinsic virtue
matrix encompass intention the boy
avatara that is the inseparable union of
the two truths in the mandala of
primordial Co emergent mind we realized
may precious supreme bodhichitta arise
in whom it has not been generated made
that which has been generated not
decline but ever further increase made a
Bodhisattvas practice virtue with an
exalted mind seeking the welfare of
beings may whatever the protectors wish
we accomplished in sentient beings not
lacking bodhichitta made beings be
inclined to the Bodhisattvas conduct may
I be held by the Buddhist compassion and
may even obstructing activity be
dispelled in all my rebirth may I never
be separated from sublime gurus and
always enjoy the glory of the Dharma
having completely perfected the
qualities of the stages and paths may
swiftly attain the state of Vajra Dharam
may all the aspiration prayers for the
purpose of wayfaring beings that have
been made from great beneficent
vajradhara
on down to the kind root Lama
on up be swiftly accomplished through
the virtues accumulations in the past
present and future by myself and all
beings in samsara and Nirvana and
through this intrinsic basic of virtue
may all sentient beings and I swiftly
attain precious perfectly complete
enlightenment Maeda teachings after a
goomba Ragnar Shri the master of
interdependent abiding your missioned
lord of dharma who sees all objects of
knowledge be upheld through teaching
practice learning reflection and
meditation until the end of cyclic
existence so next we will do the prayer
for excellent conduct in the blue prayer
book okay blue prayer book and this is
on page 52 page 5 to the king of noble
prayers aspiring to the deeds of the
excellent homage to ever youthful
manjushri with purity of body speech and
mind i bow to all the heroic buddhas of
the past present and future without
exception in every world and in all ten
directions by the power of this
aspiration of samantabhadra i bow with
as many bodies as there are others in
the world to all those victorious
Buddha's manifest in my mind and I pay
honors to all of them I conceive the
entire realm of truth to be completely
filled with the enlightenment on each
atom I imagined there to be as many
buddhas as atoms in the world each
Buddha surrounded by many Bodhisattvas I
honor all these blissful lords praising
their perfections with all the sounds of
various melodies an ocean of endless
praise I offer to those heroic Buddhas
the finest flowers garland music and
wayman's extolling
canopy's choice lamps and the best
incense they offer as well to those
victorious ones the finest array of all
the excellent things the finest robes
and fragrances and heaps of
sweet-smelling powders as high as Mount
Meru by the power of my faith in the
deeds of samantabhadra I prostrate in
present vast and unequaled offerings to
each of the victorious Buddha's I
confess every type of wrong that I have
done in thought word or deed while
influenced by desire anger and ignorance
I rejoice in the meritorious deeds of
all the buddhas as well as those
performed by the Bodhisattvas practica
Buddhas our hearts those who are in the
path of training those who need no more
training and by all sentient beings in
the ten directions
I entreat the enlightened protectors who
have attained the detachment of
Buddhahood and illuminate the worlds of
the ten directions to turn the peerless
wheel of Dharma with folded hands I
beseech those who intend to manifest the
final Nirvana to remain for as many
aeons as there are atoms in all of the
worlds for the benefit and happiness of
all living beings may whatever small
amount of virtue I may have gained from
prostrating offering and confessing
rejoicing and beseeching to be dedicated
to the attainment of perfect
enlightenment may I worship the buddhas
of the past and those now present in the
worlds of the ten directions may those
to come quickly fulfilled
duration and reach Buddhahood by
traversing the stages of enlightenment
swiftly may all the worlds of the ten
directions become extensively and
completely pure may it be filled with
Bodhisattvas and victorious Buddha's who
proceed to the royal tree of
enlightenment may all living beings in
the ten directions always be happy and
free of sickness may they be endeavor
favourable circumstances for achieving
dharmic goals and may their wishes be
accomplished may I remember my lives in
all states of existence while in
training for enlightenment and all my
success of births and deaths and I
always embrace religious life and I
follow all the victorious Buddha's and
perfect all the deeds of Samantabhadra
pure in morality without defect may my
conduct always be flawless may I teach
the Dharma in every tongue in whatever
sounds are understood by living beings
in the languages of the gods Nagas
demons spirits and human beings may I
steadfastly apply myself to the six
perfections now I never disregard my
intention to attain enlightenment you
completely remove whatever faults may
obscure my path may I be free from karma
emotional afflictions and the influence
of demons like a lotus unsoiled by the
mire or like the Sun and Moon in a clear
sky so that I may proceed on in Hindu
throughout all the lands in all the
directions may I relieve the sufferings
of the lower realms may I be able to
bring happiness to and provide benefit
or living beings fully accomplishing the
activities of enlightenment network in
harmony with the needs of all things and
I practice and demonstrate the deeds of
Samantabhadra through all future Aeons
may I always associate with those whose
activities are similar to mine may we
act alike in thought word and deed and
may our aspirations be as one may I
always associate with spiritual friends
who wish to help me and teach the deeds
of samantabhadra may I never cause them
pain or disappointment may I always
personally behold the victorious Buddhas
those guardians surrounded by
Bodhisattvas without tiring in all
future Aeons may I always present the
Magnificent offerings may I always
uphold the Buddha's holy Dharma and
illuminate the deeds of enlightenment
may I train in the practice of
Samantabhadra in all future accounts the
rebirth and all the states of existence
may I gather an endless store of merit
and wisdom may I become an inexhaustible
treasure of all virtues of method wisdom
concentration and liberation may I
always behold as many pure lands as
there are atoms present in each world
with inconceivable Buddha's sitting in
the midst of their Bodhisattvas and for
the activities of enlightenment in this
way may I be able to see everywhere even
on every mode of dust countless Buddha's
of the past present and future
limitless pure lands and endless Aeons
may I always heed the pure speech of the
victorious Buddha's which holds within
each word the totality of the perfect
Dharma and an ocean of languages
precisely suited to the needs of each
being may I possess the perfect
intelligence to heed the endless melody
of speech when the victorious buddhas of
the past present and future turn the
wheel of Dharma may I accomplish the
Bodhisattvas practice of entering the
past present and future in a fraction of
a second may I know in a single instant
all that is encompassed in the duration
of the three times may I behold all
heroic buddhas of the past present and
future in a single instant they always
perform their activities through the
power of liberation from illusion may I
perceive upon the single atom the
perfect design of the pure realms of the
past present and future thus may I enter
into the realms of the victorious
Buddhas in all directions when the
illuminators of the worlds of the future
realized the stages of Buddhahood turned
the wheel and enter the profound peace
of Nirvana may I always be in their
presence may I accomplish the perfect
powers of enlightenment with the power
of miraculous swiftness the power
perfection of every spiritual path the
power of all virtuous qualities the
power of all pervasive loving-kindness
the power of merit of every virtue the
power of all transcendent wisdom and the
power of perfect knowledge method and
meditation may the forces of karma be
utterly purified the power of passions
utterly subdued the power of demons
utterly destroyed the power of the deeds
of samantabhadra perfected may i
tirelessly perform the enlightened
activities for an ocean of errands
purifying an ocean of lands liberating
an ocean of beings realizing an ocean of
Dharma attaining an ocean of wisdom
perfecting an ocean of practice
accomplishing an ocean of aspirations
ceaselessly serving an ocean of Buddhas
may I completely fulfill all perfect
aspirations to the enlightened
activities of the victorious Buddha's of
the three times by attaining
enlightenment according to the deeds of
samantabhadra the eldest son of the
victorious Buddhas is called
Samantabhadra I dedicate all these
virtuous actions my deeds may be like
his may my body speech mind deeds and
environment always be pure may I become
equal to Samantabhadra in these
excellent aspirations may there be no
limit to my activities
no limit to my virtues limitless
perseverance may I accomplish all
miraculous deeds the limit of living
beings is like the limit of open space
made a limit of my aspirations be equal
to the limit of their activities and
passions whoever offers to the
victorious Buddha's all the perfect
choice of gods and men and the infinite
realms of the ten directions adorned
with jewels for as many aeons as there
are atoms in these realms shall gain
great merit but whoever hears this
greatest dedication pair and is inspired
by faith too intensely desire supreme
enlightenment shall gain even higher and
holier married whoever recites the
aspiration of samantabhadra will never
again endure hellish rebirth will
abandon all evil friends and will soon
behold Amitabha the Buddha a found less
light they will gain all benefits live
in happiness attain precious human
rebirth and soon become like
Samantabhadra himself even those who in
ignorance committed the five
unredeemable sins will soon be
completely purified by reciting this
aspiration of samantabhadra they will
achieve perfect wisdom a radiant
countenance beautiful form auspicious
physical marks and a noble birth profane
and devilish being will not trouble them
and they will be honored in the three
realms something they will quickly reach
the tree of enlightenment and reside
there
all beings as enlightened Buddhists they
will turn the wheel of Dharma taming the
demonic hosts however preserves teaches
or recites this aspiration of
Samantabhadra shall ultimately gain
perfect Buddhahood remain on despair of
complete enlightenment in whatever way
valiant mind Juicery and samantabhadra
know how to transfer merit so do I
dedicate all of my own virtues that I
might trade to be like them since
dedication is praised as supreme by the
victorious Buddha's of the three times I
dedicate all these roots of virtue to
accomplishing the deeds of samantabhadra
at the moment of my death may all my
observations be removed that I may
behold Amitabha the Buddha boundless
light and go to sukhavati
the pure land of perfect bliss in that
blissful land may I completely fulfill
all these aspirations to benefit all
beings as long as the universe remains
joyful there in that blessed assembly of
the Buddha may I be reborn like the holy
ones so I'm an exquisite Lotus too and
may the Buddha Amitabha himself or tell
my own enlightenment
may I thereafter emanate endless
countless
for living beings and all the ten
directions there whatever small virtues
I have gathered by reciting this
aspiration of Samantabhadra may all the
virtuous aspirations of living beings be
accomplished in a single moment through
the boundless merit gained by dedicating
these aspirations of samantabhadra made
out list phoenix drown in the torrent of
suffering reached the stage of greatest
benefit countless living beings
[Music]
yo soul marisa monte by yo-yo ma family
or turkey donor stones ry appalling
curry launches Rajesh Apache cousin also
tomorrow there are the teachable arrays
tell me the opposite of what Bradley
there isn't a supreme authority they
already there are none of my herbs so
now we have received refuge town and now
having received a spell also means that
you should develop faith and respect a
pure view towards all the other
religions in the world also that is
because they're in a meaning what they
really say is one and the same and that
is to cultivate love and compassion and
to protect that with patience so even
though a lot of things are being said
the inner meaning is ultimately one
single things even though many that many
words also import ISM what is that one
thing that we really talk about it is
the precious bodhichitta
so that's really the essence and if you
understand this single essence then
actually whatever you practice whatever
lama you follow whatever teaching you
receive it doesn't madam it doesn't
necessarily mean when you practice that
you have to do a certain Leedom the ato
sadhna and so on actually you can't just
recite those aspiration prayers like the
one we just did if you just read those
prayers and think about their meaning
the meaning of those words actually does
that incredible quality it's not
necessarily it's not really necessary
that you always arrange it really vast
offerings and all kinds of things
actually you can just read these prayers
like the aspiration prayer for excellent
conduct and if you just understand that
for example you just one line from
within there you have gained and
understand
after Buddhist and Buddhist view and so
then have no bias towards any religion
treat them all with a pure view and
respect and I also engaged in discussion
with other disciples read these prayers
together and really think about actually
it's important to think about the words
of those prayers whatever you read
actually you should think about the
meaning of those words in that prayer
for example the Samantabhadra prayer or
the prayer for excellent conduct is all
very important so now you have perfectly
received a refuge foul and if you don't
give it up it will not give up you so
you will proceed from happiness to
happiness so if you want to give if you
don't give up happiness happiness will
not give up you need some boxes on your
bottom notes are sincere and okay Poorna
tamati Matata monopolist in Sona
distinto may be provable matrix element
educated Tamala Party MP Te Ururoa
transfer law tion-tion-tion Donte
Johnson little testosterone attention
from Emporia State our territory today
said yes madam the rule is awash but she
watches the whole notion three dollars
Australian glory television actor
Terrence transition mama bridge the jail
the Challenger thank you they all got
something wrong with the Southern
Corridor wa senator technology
collective remaining for an eternity
no structure jaejoong-hyung these two
mythologies in doing what Martin or you
know a near-complete room tato decimals
to Matsumoto the new opportunity from
northern the trained reasoner
commissioned by or what their response
all the sudden in them then in the
thirty-seven practices we come to number
twenty one which is to take attachment
as the path
it says sensory pleasures like salt
water the more you drink the greater
your thirst abandon at once all things
that give rise to clinging attachment
this is the way of a bodhisattva and so
in general it is said that it there's
nothing wrong with enjoying any after
five sense pleasures but we should not
develop it is strong attachment to these
because when we become very attached
then in the end in this and future lives
it will cause a lot of harm for example
some people smoke or take drugs to the
point where they can't stop doing that
so they become addicted and even in a
mundane sense they are sort of expelled
from society that they're often not even
considered like a person often more like
an animal so if you think about it and
also drinking alcohol for example
people for example by drinking a lot of
alcohol destroy their livers and even if
it comes to their death they still won't
stop because they're addicted so that's
the fault of cleaning attachment
addiction and it's not just in this life
you don't just have this life it will be
carried on and beyond this life so if
now you are very attached to any of the
five sense pleasures then later from
that cleaning attachment the appearance
of the hungry spirit realm will become
manifest attachment leads to sting genus
of greed and that leads to jealousy and
that leads to hatred in the end and this
is how the five afflictive emotions
arise in stages starting with the
attachment in a Samantabhadra prayer it
says when attachment arises you don't
have to abandon it but you have to
recognize for example when these feeling
arises of I really won't need that by
any means I need that then you have to
be mindful for example you really want
to eat something sweet so nowadays we
know that it leads to diabetes that's
why scientists say you shouldn't eat it
not much of thing and it's not just
about food whichever of the afflictive
emotions is the strongest in you you
have to really recognize it's fault
again and again and and overcome it in
this way because these afflictive
emotions cause harm temporarily and
ultimately think about the harm that
they caused us in this life and also in
all future lifetimes the harm that is
caused by the afflictions so therefore
it is that you should give up whatever
you are attached to
not only sustained remember the hotel
consumer is soldered intelligible
chatter now interrogations simply a
commercial success seminar or chardie'
or a singularity currently several
windows comparison with the trumpet
robbery Oh American machine embroidery
your argument is not correct but
arranging to departure travel monkey
cause actively departure control often
analogy material a turtle turtle she
watches the counter printing business
Takayama say watch the nearest in terms
of your home or is about the origin
cordial certain say on Senator Martin is
not Dolly's dark forces the dark art of
God in her Odyssey nonsense doctor
clearly they would consider him the same
doctor problem Watson al-rahman so nerdy
nummies
several photos certification or certain
containers total diversity Thomas
original zombie simple knowledge
generation natural more the tile we
consider one adult man that wrote the
awesome their probation where did all
the powers and touchid don't need to he
doesn't see welcoming average
the next verse number 20 tomb as there
was on the ultimate truth it says the
way things appear is your own mind mind
itself primarily transcends fabricated
extremes knowing just this do not create
concepts of subject and object this is
the way of a bodhisattva so this is the
ultimate truth and that's very very
important verse it's about the view of
Maha mudra man's option so the way
things appear whatever appears the
entire outer universe and all the
sentient beings within the universe
whatever appears is created by the mind
it is a reflection of the mind so we
think that whatever appears is real and
appear exists in us in a concrete way
and we think that the universe is
separate from the sentient beings so the
way we perceive things is first in a
collective way there is the collective
karmic imprints which have created this
appearance of the outer world the
universe so this collective imprint for
example is that you think I am an
American so this concept naturally
arises in your mind collective because
all Americans think that it's collective
a collective imprint this is how it
appears to us and these concepts are
like clouds obscuring the sky so this is
how the mind the mind has naturally
created the entire universe and all
sentient beings all sentient beings on
the inner level have their own
individual Karma's and habitual imprints
and due to that they appear in a great
variety of ways for example with a body
without a body
some are very large like a mountain some
are very small like water particle all
the sentient beings in the three realms
appear in these diverse ways that is
because they have their own individual
very particular karma and merit and that
leads to an unmistakable pearance and
that is something that no one can
fabricate no matter how skilled science
might become they couldn't make that
these fine workings of karma so now when
we speak of this in a more larger sense
it's more difficult to understand we can
also just think about two people for
example when you look at each other then
first of all you think that we are two
different people what you're looking at
are two different bodies so if you just
look at the body even the body might
look different but it's still
essentially the same it's composed of
the same matter so there's a slight
difference maybe in the shape and so on
but it's the same thing the body so it's
the same these two are the same and then
so then we look at the mind and how you
see it is that's meme and over there
does him this me is the self and he is
the other so then if you really look
closely where are they then where is the
self where is the other and you won't
find it at all so if you sustain
mindfulness you see that even if
thousands of thoughts rise up in your
mind there's only one awareness that
recognizes all of these thoughts this is
the consciousness the consciousness is
your mind and the reason why the Buddha
called it the consciousness so literally
in Tibetan it means like it's the one
that that discerns outer objects that's
the consciousness literally it perceives
a duality of self and Adam it is just
like the reflection from a crystal the
rainbow light emerging from a crystal
the many different colors so we are
confused by the perception that these
appearances manifesting from the mind
are separate from us we believe that
they are the outer universe and the
sentient beings all separately existing
from us and so because we believe that
this is a reality this belief is a very
strong imprint it's a very thick imprint
it's like ice continuing to freeze into
more ice so it's a solid a constant
solidification of ice so actually if you
look look at those two people their mind
is one and the same when you look at
your own mind and all these thoughts
after three times come to a cessation
what still remains is awareness clear
awareness so first you only gain
certainty in that you recognize this
clear awareness that is always there no
matter how many thoughts arise and it is
this awareness what it must be aware of
what it must hold on to is love now
recognizing that that is the only cause
of happiness in a temporary and ultimate
sense and if that awareness and follows
this concept of meme then many
afflictive emotions will arise and it
creates some Sauron so this is how we
might gain an understanding so actually
when you look at self and other self and
other are really one and the same your
clear awareness is one and the same so
you can't say that it's there it's not
really actually there it's not an
existing thing is empty there's nothing
really there it's just like space but
then if you say it's just like empty
space there still is some
that is clear and knowing there's an
awareness that is that is there that
there is conscious of things and that is
what we call the Clara team so the
nature of that Clara team is emptiness
so that is what we call clarity and
emptiness this is the view the nature of
the mind that you should look at over
and over again and you realize that my
empty Clara team and his empty Clara
team are one and the same there's really
no delineation between our empty
clarity's there's just one empty Clara
team and that's the ultimate truth that
realizes that all is creation of the
mind so that is why we know that is what
we refer to as the consciousness the one
who creates everything is the
consciousness and so you gain like a
100% certainty in Deveny when you see
that when you see its essence so when
you see its essence it is something that
can either said to be existing nor can
it said to be non existing it cannot be
given any name it cannot be called
anything and that is the meaning of the
middle way or madhyama come and also
came both hands and get each more on
that so this verse here resolves that
appearances our one's own mind this is
the point to be understood here all my
live in a home
Marybel
[Music]
Oh
man
[Music]
Oh oh man
Oh
[Laughter]
the report of the paddle it's a
primitive although currently learn the
tongue know quite how each other talk to
each other so we can entertain in
continue chub theory to Cochran it's
updated somewhat rokka rokka rokka
cutting board old chap do is just remove
the high quality you know me well so
there's no karate chop the origin is not
any you know the father Eugenie combi
they sold the Dom body you was nothing
we perform you are literally the new
technology Harkin was a party Lorna 1380
or my
mythology meet Pepe overhead police to
determine random lady Josephine Oklahoma
destiny
Mar solution Dorothy the young Colonel
son of knowledge of the Mana Party
permanent member average naughty parm
about two or a bus or iorry I think
aroma
I said hearing them in the text in the
beginning there's this image of
Chenrezig this around image and this
form this image of Chenrezig is actually
very beneficial for one being are
reciting the mani mantra so what it
represents is his all pervasive nature
that he pervades all the regions of
space he pervades all of samsara and
Nirvana
that's the Dharmakaya and also the
symbolic ayahs and the near monarch is
pervades the six realms of samsara
actually he is his nature he's beyond
coming and going the space pervading
nature is beyond coming and going and
all of the stars in the sky are really
the eyes of children always looking upon
us and also at the center of this image
is such a Isaac's face that was attached
to it because we see his face clearly
then a special feeling arises again of
his true nature that is beyond coming
and going we remember his qualities
actually he never forgets about us it is
just that we sometimes forget but
actually the name Chenrezig itself
actually Zig means to see him so there
is never a time where he doesn't seem at
all times he looks upon us and this face
in the center this image is taken from
team self arisen 545 old self arisen
great compassionate one that was that
existed in Lhasa since the time of
something important the king
until it was demolished by the communist
rule button again it was kind of um was
kind of restored he could restore the
image we could retain the image of his
face and many images have been made we
printed many different pictures of this
of this particular image of his face and
nowadays not so much but in the old days
I was I was passing out these little
cards that image on a human tongue
durability charges the number topic
today is our marine layer deeper cha Chi
Yong water - no - we shine over it means
a young village in the younger you're a
national solution a rock Oh God
Hajin de Tomaso a citation TM assembler
dissertation Thomas on Saturday the
sorority Tom muscle cemetery G Thomas
ampere Center at a South paw how much of
a nominal charge is our whole project so
much
Girona delta T but recorder data do you
not also are dear to me
Harmon separate three mortgages
nonprofit each other is one of the major
person tolerate the English authorities
Jamison therapy for the total area there
are thousands horizontally the niches
rooms in Ximena year Virginia so assume
you're not the percentage watching the
lisa.marta Thomas on the hockey team
have been dodging generous young simple
object reference scenario alleged Mahina
attended so verse number twenty two
speaks about the ultimate truth says
fabricated extremes it transcends
fabricated extremes so that is for
example a fabricated extreme is our
belief in the true existence of
appearances and then our our labels
about them so we say that this really
exists
the body and the mind is really here
really exists however in the end it is
impermanent and will just turn into dust
his entire universe and all sentient
beings within are confused about reality
and so then there's others who think
that nothing exists when they look at
the mind to think that there is no mind
there is nothing for some intelligent
ones think that they have seen emptiness
so they might have an understanding of
that but but then still and there is
this imprint of thoughts attachment and
aversion ignorant and as they continue
to arise one continues to accumulate
calm
which creates karmic imprints which
again leads to the appearances of the
six realms of samsara so if you think
that nothing exists then again you're
wrong because karma is still unfailing
and it will ripen so both of these views
are mistaken and how did the Buddha
explain it when he spoke about the
nature of the mind he said that don't
think about anything at all
in Mahamudra it says without a single
thought
look decisively at the true nature of
the mundane so without a single thought
in a mind look at the mind directly and
there is emptiness like space it is an
experience of space and then this space
like nature is clearly known you know
that it is empty like space that is
clarity and emptiness and then what
needs to be done is having recognized
that you need to gain stability in
sustaining that state so you are free to
always stay within that state and if you
always sustain that that state that the
recognition then whatever thoughts arise
and happy thoughts and sad thoughts
whatever arises its you will be able to
overcome and let it go then when you
really stay in a state of meditation all
thoughts become like waves on water or
the course thoughts become like you
would being consumed by fire and that is
the power of the ultimate nature of the
mind or in a vertical ayah it is
referred to attaining the fortress of
the view and so it says I do not create
concepts of subject and object so when
the outer objects come into contact with
the inner grasping mind
then the mind things or this is when
when they see an object
oh that's that and this is that so don't
think anything at all without a single
thought just rests within the natural
state of the mind and that is sufficient
so without a single thought
look decisively at the nature of the
mind so in brief that is the actual mind
you know you're talking about nerdy
permutation sincerely you know his
children not actively been a mess or
shadow government had enormous or talked
about or T metabolism sorry for
directional gyro message from Eva was
the pointer project among philosophers
roger goodell my majapahit say virginia
non-syrian appears somewhat encouraged
substantively the Dilma is the one with
average density there was an amazing
achievement average the agility policy
tolerate more public support of the
Amitabha Amitabha Amitabha reserved
apportionment and on marry Swati Mossad
samsaris
but I belong here through the ocean
between two thousand promises eternal
and report our hydrometer rose in the
South East Germany on current authority
our system dead
Pina Kampala Tom and ovals olive oil
salt rub it in you sent it don't know
the layers
they were actually there in a koala the
lunch ever is Telecom a doctrine or
Israel then verse number 23 when you
come across things that attract you like
beautiful rainbows in summertime do not
regard them as real and abandon clinging
attachment this is the way of a
bodhisattva so this is an instruction
how to practice when desirable sense
object appears so when that appears when
attachment arises one must imply the
antidote immediately for example there's
this beautiful flower that you like very
much and in that moment you have to
remember impermanence
without thinking anything else you just
remember that now it is there and for as
long as it is there I can hold on to it
but it will change it is impermanent it
will not always stay so this is how you
think with regard to our objects
regarding the inner mind there is
various thoughts of love and compassion
and so on that arise for example towards
our friends and so on and then there's
this attachment and stays in the mind so
again remember impermanence everything
is impermanent happiness is impermanent
suffering is also impermanent happiness
and suffering of both like clouds in the
sky so we think about what happened in
the past and what will happen in the
future all the happiness and pains that
will come all of that is impermanence so
when a circumstance arises that
causes these feelings to arise and the
moment this feeling arises you don't
even have to think too much about how it
is like what its nation is it is
impermanent and so on
just remember impermanence in that
moment and nothing else
and that is just like when when there is
a little bit of ice and then there's hot
water arising then that is melting
but then when it gets a little bit cold
again it freezes again so what we need
is a kind of like am a moderation
equanimity in terms of whatever arises
it is just like when it's cold you turn
on the heater and when it's hot you turn
on the cooler so you kind of try to find
a balance and just the right measure of
temperature so in a similar way you
don't overextend that thought but you
more remain in a state of equanimity
that just simply recognizes the
impermanent nature of everything so this
is how we take desire and hatch meant as
the path how we practice with it
so when it arises in brief we have to
remember impermanence tyranny gotcha by
your body
Justin Jared mister some cherubim
[Music]
represent us in Congress the mother
single mother will cause amazing
rittany is falling normally young so
here's some change that much I know it's
another is you know original robber to
me don't we just wait come later
austerity Muslim talkie powder touchable
the authoritative by George on each
other love the middle is just a hard
talk to you more easily judge the
auditory similarities from Bari just our
territories no more serious always there
karma ZZZ shower prior your pleasure
unit any other love journey it's about
area and Asia Taj mmm
doubling them in the storage shed some
light on what are some other method or
some double in the American to the
broader then the next verse and says 24
all suffering is like the death of your
child in a dream how exhausting it is to
hold illusory appearances as real
therefore when you meet with difficult
circumstances see them as you lose the
ring this is the we have a body start
firm so this then is about how to deal
with and very difficult circumstances
and so often if we if we only look at
ourselves and only think about our own
problems
then the slightest problem will appear
very like a very heavy problem and that
is because this
the stronger one self-grasping the
stronger will be one suffering and then
just the slightest sensation of physical
pain for example is seen as the greatest
suffering so it's all such a person then
should think in this way all this
suffering is like the death of a child
in one stream now actually it's all the
same what we experience in the waking
state all of our problems and the
suffering that we might experience when
we dream at night is actually basically
the same there's just a difference in
duration maybe but the point is that if
you cling to the suffering thought you
will experience suffering and if you
keep thinking about it over and over
again it will keep you may continue to
experience suffering over and over again
so without thinking anything at all if
you just let it be then there also is no
suffering because suffering is just as
thought so the way to overcome it is
first of all think about Karma and
recognize that it's all created by my
own afflictive emotions and then ideally
if you have understood the view then
don't think anything at all and just
recognize everything happiness and
suffering it all is just a thought and
no matter what arises you will sustain
the natural state of the mind and just
allow all arising to dissipate like a
way from water so this is the special
skillful means of the secret mantra how
we transform afflictive emotions into
primordial wisdom so it's all as thought
happiness and suffering both 'trust
thoughts Milarepa also said that
actually samsara if you asked about the
characteristics of samsara samsara has
no basis and no root and so we cannot
say in terms of samsara that this is it
and this is not it if you if you were to
one if you want to find one root of
samsara then it is thought it is all
created by one's thoughts and if you
keep singing at our thoughts then again
and again these thoughts will just
continue to create more suffering so
instead of clinging through our thoughts
and keeps thinking about things don't
think about anything at all and whatever
arises just let it let it be don't
follow it and it will disappear just
like a wave on water and you will see
all arising a scream like by nature like
the test of a child in a dream so then
also when you experience suffering one
reflection on the relative level is to
think that even though I have this
problem what about the problems and the
suffering of all the beings in this
world actually compared to that my
suffering is really nothing and so if
you think in this way is the suffering
of all the other beings in the world
then also your own suffering will
decrease the vegetable is a reporter I
just encourage don't wanna tell me Shiva
matcha tea it's important to watch
attorneys normally Authority is only
achievement of dharma raja baath
the ugly printed to be a movie cheapest
our forum for several miles tank or how
is the miracle for a new printer he or
they are actually seen will return
don't even call flower loony since our
chubby hazel so this is related to what
we just mentioned before this confusion
that we end up with and so the point of
equalizing it is that actually damn if
your attachment to the pleasant
experience experiences is very strong
then your experience of suffering will
be just as strong they are in direct
proportion and that is why do not be
attached to this feeling this experience
of bliss but sustained awareness if you
are able to sustain awareness in a
moment of great bliss and joy then you
will also be able to let go of a
suffering experience and so this is how
happiness and suffering are one and the
same
then if you are attached to happiness
you will also experience a more intense
feeling of suffering on the other hand
that is why it is that happiness and
suffering are not different this is the
perfect instruction so therefore in the
face of bliss and happiness
you don't feel get excited and feel it's
it's so good and also you are not really
negatively affected harmed by any
suffering so they become equal and in
this way they are actually liberated
easily and in fact attachment to bliss
is something that we can liberate easily
we recognize the fault that it causes
and when you recognize that the mind is
very clear the truth I just want you
Marie
certified discipline many simply she
must sow Tara sauce from the gee-gees
gotcha very medicinal
true Amity not sure Moshe
Protestant initely martyr martyr the
pathology the additional source of
children attend college the Raritan
fertilizer carnival tortellini
Tamaki are the most evil devotionally
propositions about not hard to predict
Americana generally maternity ward
judges on the track Sebastian Murray the
bassel matar means or since our judicata
Terry properties and hunger is so large
isn't our interpretation down so then
there's this term he mentioned before
confusion and that is actually very
meaningful to and very important term
now what is this confusion so a feeling
arises a very subtle feeling begins to
arise and then it grows stronger and you
follow it and that is the confusion so a
thought arises when a thought arises how
we should practice with it so we don't
become confused a thought arises and
he's you grasp that thought immediately
must clear awareness without following
the thought the moment it arises you
recognize it then you will not become
confused you will not run into delusion
delusional confusion is when you give
way to this feeling that is generated by
the thought and you just follow it that
is the confusion so it comes from the
clinging to the thoughts
so first the thought arises a feeling
arise
and that is where it needs to be
recognized and when you recognize it it
will disappear and then the mind becomes
like the sky that is free of any clouds
otherwise any of the 84,000 afflictive
emotions arises basically what they all
come down to the confusion that they
generate is the grasping at them and
therefore it is said when who the one
who one who grasps it does not hold the
view because when you grasp your mind
becomes unclear and unclear mind follows
confusion follows following confusion
means basically giving way to are
following your feelings totally don't
Bangladesh are words des Linton Amitabh
Bachchan en donde Dan's in tes tes
yo soy una dama de sonido sentiment
rural home OT ba so San Antonio Marez
open carry
tah-dah HHH a rotate a ginger on day 1
del Toro de camino de la terre tomorrow
marriage Java partisan is no debate
economy vitamin a certain emotion that
is share carcinogen water on in college
the Socratic totality sociology patience
adjournment on which are volatile
territories part of the domain jewelry
the rarity learn the song turned Ovid
son children
sorry Sango though God imparts on
results dot 0t did Sonny's employ been
dollar the Quran then Marisa Marisa some
[Music]
origin occurred the bottoms
since interest of China Pakistan Moritz
dodgy Papa materially sent in turn
taught or material solution to the page
Rory a thousand Center a new correctly
with such a touchy subject
Tatyana the mother with your mother
Holly can be part of the smart our new
mobile part of our progress on area
three collagen not sunjai's ensemble
unity Tata
I'm so sorry Michael you know my shallot
awardees
the part of our community is their
promoted it down to give or take the bus
of our age that is the selling improv
then verse number 25 when even once body
must be given up when an aspiring for
enlightenment what need is there to
mention material things there for
practice generosity without hope of
reward or karmic results this is the way
of a bodhisattva and i'm so generosity
m-- is an antidote to self-grasping so
from self-grasping arises in genus and
this is the antidote to that also over
the seven branches the offering after
seven branches is an
- that it is to practice generosity
towards sentient beings and make making
offerings towards those higher beings
like the jewels so then if one has a
general wish to give then merely
processing many things in itself doesn't
cause any harm but what causes the harm
is their clinging to those things and
normally we like to gain things get
things and as we accumulate things our
clinging attachment or self-grasping
increases and you think that this is
what I have I have this I have that or
people need a lot of clothes it's not
enough to just have one or two they have
to get more and even if the house is
already full with clothes they go buy
more clothes and so that's because there
is no contentment but then when it comes
to giving away something they they can't
do that they are stingy so that's the
antidote to that making offerings and
being generous so what's the nature of
distinction as' the more no matter how
much you get there is no contentment
that's the nature for example even if
you have say a million dollars you still
want more you don't have enough but when
you have to give any of that away you
suffer you don't want to give anything
away so so here it says when aspiring
for enlightenment so this term
enlightenment Chang job Chun means to
purify and so what is to be purified is
self grasping the self-cherishing mind
and how it is purified is by that second
syllable trope which means to master
accomplish an altruistic mind for
example when there is some food that he
likes them you feel that I want to eat
that
I will
that and it's constantly our thoughts go
around his eye I want this and I want
that but really do we really want to
give anything away we I don't have this
mind that wants to give anything away or
make offerings to the three jewels and
so forth so Milarepa had said even if
you have no material thing to give in
acting in general slim if you have the
wish to give then even the little that
you have like a little bit of food that
you might give to an animal already that
becomes an antidote to attachment so
that that's sustaining that mind that
wants to freely give without holding
back that does not allow the mind to
freeze into an ice block so that's the
the benefit of this sustaining I wish to
give I wish to give to others so think
about those benefits and also the harm
caused by trying to own things and not
give things for example in the past
before the Buddha attained enlightenment
he took birth in five hundred impure and
five hundred pure ways and throughout
that time he perfected the parameter of
generosity he transformed the six
afflictive emotions into the six
paramitas and to do so he endured many
hardships now he is the Buddha
shining like the Sun in this world and
that is a quality of the six paramitas
and so when the Buddha first thought six
paramitas
first and foremost the first one that he
thought was the parameter of generosity
because it is an antidote to
self-grasping Jesus in Essaouira he
thought in a year or 30 autumn so
generally the term the Summa theologia
Nemedia sorry the darker is poison
bottle Missouri's
marriage the suggestibility are not
introduced in Atari cartridge the
doctrine or Colorado chronology partner
other data telling you more total
inequality the seniority budget and it
was resistant to opportunity then
general Genesis or party lower rates and
so no self grasp and some stingy Ness is
something that we all possess self
another we all have that but it's
important that we recognize it's fault
for the most part even though we have it
we don't really recognize it we have we
take no notice of it at all so when the
Buddha thought the fourth us to turn the
mind this is how he describes the hungry
spirit drum like this some sense of lack
of contentment and so on and not having
enough manifests as these hungry spirits
which this large belly as large as a
valley and a very narrow throat and so
some people might think that this is
just a mental body but not really
actually there is creatures like that
here in this world - for example there
is this certain kind of Bacchus like a
little leash that's kind of small but
the moment it latches onto your body he
can't take it off anymore and and then
it begins to drink your blood and it
fills up and it grows bigger and then
eventually if it falls off on its own
and so then it has this huge blood
filled belly and cannot walk so this is
very similar not chicken some gun had
said that comic ripening is the
momentary manifestation of one's inner
thought one's mind so if you really
believe in the words of the Buddha and
you can see it all around you the
truthfulness of the Buddhist words so
when you look around a real feeling
arises wherever you look for example
when you seem poisonous snake or a
scorpion then a feeling arises you know
that this is a manifestation of hatred
or a manifestation of jealousy for
example as a manifestation of jealousy
these animals they even though you don't
actually go after them they go after you
and cause harm so that's just a natural
appearance and so then the Buddha taught
an antidote for each of those six
afflictive emotions for example
generosity is the antidote to sting
genus and patience is the antidote to
hatred and so forth but it begins with
seeing the faults in those afflictions
and and William seeing that wherever you
probably look actually you can see an
example of it some mineral murder you
know the work autonomy bailiffs
just our target market of Tourism
Authority yes I'm gonna take lots of
leverage sorry it's true but just don't
talk daddy processor wuv no worries
so it says without hope of reward or
karmic results so what is the harm in
wishing for some karmic results or some
rewards when we practice generosity the
harm is that
self-grasping arises there is this hope
do you think that if I do that I will
get something from it in the future and
then there is like if you don't get it
and then there's regrets and then you
lose your merit so the self arises so
don't think in this way when once you
have given away something then it's
already been completed you already
gained the karmic reward from having
given in itself because self-grasping is
the root of the 84,000 afflictive
emotions and once you have given away
you have given away self-grasping so you
already have gained the advantage the
reward you already have gained it so you
should just think that that is enough
Just Giving in itself is already enough
there's no need to hope for anything
more
so think about just the qualities of
generosity so turning around about 10
years there's a simple dip army by its
roots
thousands are orany somewhere
no not everybody must get up to the
soffit ng y la primavera Jesus are
honest people child over or don t de
medicina de la fromage de la santé
drivin me nuts or chana saag Oakland
Oakland on the prints or normally don't
even notify result is a wave other words
there are numerous dandy damage actions
of the Aurora source our code or our
doctor tell us over the course circle
important matter is a quad average
preachy bottle Murray's home repairs
dollars a minute somebody need is
imagine this is some Delta Pi n gamma
rays and next verse number 26 s if you
lack moral discipline you cannot
accomplish even your own purpose so
wanting to achieve the purpose of others
is truly absurd therefore protect your
discipline without concern for worldly
existence this is the way of a
bodhisattva
so in general in the Buddhist teachings
there are many different modes of moral
ethical discipline a different boughs of
the individual liberation the
Bodhisattvas and
Ruggiano but what is the ultimate actual
ethical discipline Milarepa has said
aside from giving up deception there is
no other ethical discipline than that so
to be free from deception not deceiving
others that is to develop a sincere
feeling of love and compassion for all
sentient beings it is a completely
undefiled wish to benefit them and if
you have that naturally whatever you do
miss body speech and mind becomes
beneficial if not if the mind is tainted
by self-grasping pride and arrogance and
so forth and self concern even if one
teaches the Dharma
one cannot really benefit that disciple
and that is because the way to melt an
ice block is through the warmth of love
if even though you may be able to speak
the Dharma but if the mind is like an
ice block you cannot melt another ice
block so this is how you cannot really
benefit them so let alone deception now
of course we cannot deceive others but
on top of not deceiving them so just not
deceiving them is not enough we also
must cultivate and an untainted true
wish to benefit them true love and
compassion and many just have that from
that perfect ethical discipline will
naturally arise and so it says if you
don't have that then now wanting you
don't even accomplish your own purpose
so wanting to achieve the purpose of
others is truly absurd so if you
yourself bring with you this mind of
Pride and
arrogance and selfishness then you will
not become liberated from the six realms
of samsara therefore not being liberated
from samsara it is absurd to think that
you can liberate others or benefit
others so on the other hand if you
simply have a wish to benefit them then
naturally a great benefit will come
about so this is all that is really
needed
it is this sincere love and compassion
for others and if you have that pure
ethical discipline will come from
Danny's
certainly daddy's Asiata you're just
completely
hold on jinsoyun you're just America
stays overhead and some gun control ham
had said now if he described his some
self-grasping he said what it is is that
this demon of self-grasping leads to a
one's own ruin and it remains there
hidden in the mind so it leads to one's
own ruin because that's the one that
spoils all your chance for any happiness
in the higher realms temporarily and
also the ultimate attainment of
vitamins it's yourself grasping the
basis of all afflictive emotions the
basis of all deception so you might
verbally speak about altruism and things
like that
but in the mind if they are
self-grasping as when the rapist said it
is only deception is Nisha Denver zero
to do with justice awesome ggtort also
need some serious therapy onerous some
generalities not something is sort of
simulates salty Donatella
the one planet is not just the top
without the will always sound a Quixote
she doesn't all our donors oh how does
he like someone is there - no but just
on tumblr it is about maternal daddy no
worry Adam this is why I am constantly
base what our donors
register dancehall so then verse number
27 is worsened patients for Bodhisattvas
who desire a wealth of virtue
all harm is like a precious treasure
therefore without hostility be patient
with everyone this is the way of a
bodhisattva some deem wealth of Bertram
that is a wealth of virtual or this
precious treasure is love there is no
greater wealth to possess than the
wealth of love it is the most valuable
jewel that
the Buddha's of the three times have
found it is love it is bodhichitta and a
person who possesses love if anyone
harms that person they are able to
practice patience and in this way they
are able to sustain their love if you
are not able to practice patience you
will eventually lose your love and often
it is as I mentioned the greatest
strongest love that then becomes the
greatest hate turned into the greatest
hatred and all your love is lost in the
end so therefore no matter how much
others hurt you or harm you if you're
able to practice patience you are
gathering a great wealth of virtual
every time someone harms you if you
practice patience you become very
wealthy in virtual body running towards
about Karina Karina Lauren Romano the
proudest Oporto our own DNA the gene
autry ET la Vella the bottle of vitamin
water Colorado yeah some young tom was
agitated we saw courage energy through
an irresistible matter no vamos a unity
that was a man he fought all three sort
of sent three warmest average know the
sheriff Marvin Juarez sir teii or not I
only wore so much attention and room
apart so savage sir sir
mr. Yardley Joseph was the world saw
some Christian sacramental cannot see
the Coliseum in July Ramirez Archer
residence at assessed hours south of the
village there was a robot from war some
so practice practicing patience means
that it begins with those that you spend
your lives with like your family and
those people that always surround you in
your daily life these are the ones you
have to practice patience with and there
are many people who have perfected
patience in that way if you if you don't
if you do not have patience you really
have nothing you have lost everything
you will lose your love you will lose
your compassion you will lose anything
that you have if you have no patience
any of the six parameters is lost for
example whatever you might have enjoyed
or given for example you have practiced
una rasa team when a certain condition
arises and you lose your patience you
get angry then all of that is actually
in some way wasted then you become like
an ordinary person with ordinary love an
ordinary compassion that is easily lost
when when anger arises there is no
patience and then even though you might
engage in some virtuous activities it
really becomes spoiled if you cannot
sustain your love for others with
patience it is just like you you have a
good vessel like a sturdy vessel but
then the contents becomes somewhat
spoiled and then it's also worthless so
the content like the milky porn to the
vessel bodhichitta is like this millage
that you pour into the vessel and
actually it is also said that it is like
gold or it is like a golden Vey
that cannot bridge patience the
perfection of patience is like such a
piece of gold our precious gem so
there's two main examples that are given
to him a bodhisattva practices patience
and bodhichitta and that is they are
like earth like the ground and they are
like gold like the ground like earth
because there is stability and stable
like the ground the ground will not tell
you don't walk on me and gold because
gold is unchanging steadfast that's an
example of bodhichitta and so in this is
how we should engage in a practice of
patience these are accurate the one
which isn't a bad return which is a
totally let's all the road develops
salvage yard did the road we also got
two more ahead so tonight we will
dedicate mr. Priam the two thousand guns
dedication prayer now a yellow prayer
book on page eighteen and it is very um
I'm short and also be added that newly
to the text and it contains a lot of
blessings so we will just read that for
the occasion tonight
marpa milarepa dharma lord khandoba
padma Drupa in Lord Raghava may the
auspiciousness of all the calculus
prevail glorious holy venerable precious
kind route in lineage gurus divine
assembly of yidams Assemblies of buddhas
bodhisattvas heroes and heroines
yogini and her assembly of dakinis all
of you dwelling in the ten directions
please heed me by the power of this vast
route of virtue may I benefit all
through through my body speech and mind
may the afflictions of attachment hatred
ignorance pride and jealousy not Erised
in my mind may thoughts of fame
reputation respect honor and concern for
this life not arrives for even a moment
may my mindstream be moistened by loving
kindness compassion and bodhichitta and
may I become the spiritual master with
good qualities equal to the infinity of
space may I gain the supreme attainment
of Maha mudra in this very life at the
moment of death
not experience the suffering of being
abruptly suffered from this life may I
not suffer a terrible death may I not
die confused by wrong views may I not
experience an untimely death may I die
joyfully and happily in the great
luminosity of the mind itself and in the
crystal clarity of Dharma - may I in any
case gain the supreme attendant of Maha
mudra at the time of death or in the
Bardo how no not no no for this realm
encircled by snow-covered mountains you
are the source of all benefit and
happiness encounters in those days may
you remain steadfast until the end of
some Sun embodiment of the three jewels
the great being who upholds an
increasing the teachings of the shockula
supreme are your activities of guiding
others with your perfect deeds may you
the precious girl who accomplishes
everything spontaneously live long
holder of the teachings of the Lord
dragula three Lord of three jewels
through the power of your prayer list
compassion and holy Dharma's peace and
light you bring relief to beings may
your life be long the one known in the
noble Ana's audio devi' emanated into
the guard plan of eastern Tibet as Jinpa
the heart son of Judean gourville
may the life of the Gloria Scott Ian
remain steadfast for a hundred a ons
crown of the shopkins kind friend to
strangers the 17 great panditas talofa
Naropa Marva Milarepa Dom Papa dipped in
some gun and their lineage airs please
the stove good fortune and
auspiciousness protector amitayus
transcendent Lord grant supreme life
everlasting stable and unchanging who
diverts from untimely death anyone who
merely here's your name or thinks of you
please bestow good fortune and
auspiciousness living austerely in the
higher trainings of discipline full of
compassion that is the glory of those to
be tamed devoid of all grasping never
parting from Maha mudra is natural state
Nia didn't FA Nima
son of the teachings in your life remain
firm may the teachings of the great
Dragoon Padma Shree the master of
interdependence omniscient Lord of the
Dharma who has seen only verbal things
we upheld until the end of cyclic
existence through study practiced
hearing contemplation and meditation
your thousand arms are the thousand
wheel turning Kings your thousand eyes
are the thousand buddhas of this
fortunate area your love is boundless
like space I supplicate to the bodies
our fortune rising
[Music]
me
Oh
[Music]
yeah
why
[Music]
yeah
you are very strong Lawson yeah
[Music]